Dear Kashmir,

Travelers far and beyond bear the stories of your beauty, 
the bride veiled by lofty snow-capped mountains and crowned with the springs of Kupwara. 
They speak wistfully of the serenity of Sufis embroidered with Zari into your poised meadows and woods; 
the sprinkle of flowers, scented with laughter shrouded by your Taranga, tucked into Gulmarg; 
and your untameable wild flaunted in the strides of the snow leopard in the quiet of Hemis. 
They are smitten by your unabated beauty 
but the legacy of your lovers’ fight taints your allure and so they bid farewell 
and when the memory strikes, they boil kahwah and let the saffron and cinnamon hum an ode.

An ode that had reached my ears, 
battling the hungry cries of media churning news incessantly. 
I know you, though we have never been acquainted. 
I know you from the backdrops of Bollywood patriotic movies, the sidekick to two warring armies. 
I know you from my social science textbooks, the state divided into militants, separatists, and civilians caught in the crossfire. 
I know you from the news, your soil marred by violations of the ceasefire and your skies terrorized in rebuke. 
I know you from the laments of your students, unwittingly entangled in labels of anti-nationalism. 
I know you from the fear of families losing men to their own, local policemen slaughtered in rebellion. 
I know you from beyond the anonymity of #MeToo movement as narratives divulge administrative and political abuse.

I know of you.

But I am here in Tamil Nadu, across the country from you, 
detached from your horrors and fleeting springs yet besotted with a curiosity to know you, 
to know you beyond the captured eternal beauty, scarred by bequest.

So lay down your rug, 
boil cups of kahwah and leave the porch door open for me. 
I’ll come trekking into your sheltered woods, 
dip my feet into your blue depths, 
lounge amongst your flowers and unravel your stories 
as you await your children coming home at dusk 
and your lovers lulling to sleep without quarrels.
